Doc update pass (#968)
project-oak/oak: docs/development.md

# Oak Development

- [Meta-Advice](#meta-advice)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Run Example Application](#run-example-application)
  - [Build Application](#build-application)
  - [Build Runtime Server](#build-runtime-server)
  - [Run Runtime Server](#run-runtime-server)
  - [Run Example Client](#run-example-client)

## Meta-Advice

For any open-source project, the best way of figuring out what prerequisites and
dependendencies are required is to look at the projects continuous integration
(CI) scripts. A project's top-level [Travis](https://travis-ci.org/),
[CircleCI](https://circleci.com/),
[Cloudbuild](https://cloud.google.com/cloud-build) or
[Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/) will give definitive information about

> what's needed, and at what version.

Reviewer: I'm not entirely certain I understand why we need this paragraph. I think for this doc, the objective for most reader's is retrieving the minimum information that's required to get started. 

Given that this is more general context on starting with unknown projects, perhaps this would be better placed somewhere else?

Reviewer 2: I also find this a bit awkward, especially since we don't actually use Travis or CircleCI, so a careless reader skimming through this doc may be tempted to just assume we do, and be confused by this.

Author: Dropped mentions of other CI systems.

Reviewer: I like the intend of "if you're stuck, looking at the CI might help", but perhaps making it more specific to our project could be cool.

> For Oak, the CI system is currently Cloudbuild using a Docker image, so the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Oak, the CI system is currently [Google Cloud Build (GCB)](https://cloud.google.com/cloud-build) using a Docker image, so the
```

Author: Done.

top-level [`cloudbuild.yaml`](/cloudbuild.yaml) and [`Dockerfile`](Dockerfile)
hold the project's configuration, dependencies and build scripts.

## Prerequisites

The project's [`Dockerfile`](/Dockerfile) holds the definitive set of
prerequisites for building and running Oak. The steps involved are generally
clear from the contents, but the
[Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/) gives

> details for any steps that aren't obvious.

Reviewer: I think those two paragraphs could be merged, since they seem to describe the same thing. 

On kind of a higher level perspective, I worked with projects with more extensive documentation before, and I generally think it's a good idea. 

I completely understand that maintaining human language docs can often feel like maintaining a [prose copy of code](https://github.com/project-oak/oak/pull/931#pullrequestreview-404918403), but it does lower the bar for new contributors. 

That said, code-as-documentation does reduce developer overhead, and seems to be the preferred Google approach. Either way is fine, but good to be conscious of. :)

Reviewer: That makes sense. :) 

I think basically a choice between speed of development/reviewing for us (ideally whenever code is changed, reviewers point to updating docs, which can be tedious), and ease of getting started for new contributors. It's absolutely fine to choose the former right now. 

As the project matures more, and we become more interested in plenty of less familiar external people using Oak, the docs will probs raise in importance.

Reviewer: The reason I like to mention this, is that I think there's a difference between what works for Google internally, and what's important for a (mature) OSS project. 

Internally Google seems to rely mostly on code-as-docs. This makes a lot of sense, since we all go through a lenghtly noogler period to ramp up. It's fair to expect that we know of to navigate the Google codebase to learn how to use things. 

Externally of course, with (mature) OSS projects that people may spend a very brief time evaluating/testing things look different.

The key prerequisites are:

- **Docker**: If you want to use Docker to ensure an exact match with the
  project's official build environment, follow the
  [Docker install instructions](https://docs.docker.com/install).

  If you want to work on the project without using Docker, you should
  synchronize your installed versions of all tools with those specified in the

>   [`Dockerfile`](/Dockerfile).

Reviewer: Why do we support both ways? It seems like saying "just use docker" might be pretty straightforward? 

Personally I'd be inclined to place the docker instructions inside of a "Get Started" section, and the non-docker approach inside of an "Advanced" section.

Reviewer 2: Maybe make this a "choose your own adventure" doc (with corresponding headings): either install Docker, or here are a few hints to what you may want to install on your host (but still the Dockerfile is the ultimate source of truth). You may want to do both if you end up developing Oak, since the iteration cycle is faster if the tools are installed natively, and your editor can integrate with them directly in that case.

Reviewer: Yeah I think that would be awesome. 

Docker as a way to get started quickly, works out of the box,
Native gets you extra speed & integration, at the cost of potentially needing to figure out things on your own.

- **Rust**: The [Rust toolchain](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) and
  ancillary tools are required for building the project's source. Note that we
  also [require](https://github.com/project-oak/oak/issues/969) a nightly build

>   of Rust; check the [`Dockerfile`](/Dockerfile) for the specific version.

Reviewer: If I use docker, do I also need to install these? It seems like no?

Author: I've pulled out a separate "Docker vs. Native" section to try to make things a bit clearer.

tools, for example for linting and synchronizing documentation. As ever, the
[`Dockerfile`](/Dockerfile) holds the details, but the scripts under
[`scripts/`](/scripts) also indicate what's needed for different steps.

## Run Example Application

Running one of the example Oak applications will confirm that all core
prerequisites have been installed. Run one inside Docker with:

```bash
./scripts/docker_run ./scripts/run_example -e hello_world
```

or, if all prerequisites are available on the local system, outside of Docker:

```bash
./scripts/run_example -e hello_world
```

That script:

- builds the Oak Runtime (a combination of C++ and Rust, built to run on the
  host system)
- builds a particular example, including both:
  - the Oak Application itself (Rust code that is compiled to a WebAssembly
    binary)
  - an external client (C++ code built to run on the host system)
- starts the Runtime as a background process, passing it the compiled
  WebAssembly for the Oak Application (which it then runs in a WebAssembly
  engine)
- runs the external client for the Application
- closes everything down.

Those steps are broken down in the following subsections; this helps figure out

> where the problem is if something goes wrong.

Reviewer: That's nice :)
